.\" ╔═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
.\" ║                              P O D R A D I O                              ║
.\" ║                   Terminal Podcast/Radio Player                           ║
.\" ║                 Author: Panic <Deadship2003@gmail.com>                    ║
.\" ╚═══════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝
.TH PODRADIO 1 "March 2025" "PodRadio v0.05-B9n3e5g3n" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
podradio \- Terminal-based podcast and radio player
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B podradio
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
PodRadio is a terminal-based podcast and radio player with ncurses TUI interface.
It supports streaming radio, podcast RSS feeds, YouTube channels/videos, and local media files.

.SS Features:
.IP \(bu 3
Radio streaming from TuneIn directory
.IP \(bu 3
Podcast RSS/Atom feed subscription and playback
.IP \(bu 3
YouTube channel, video, and playlist support
.IP \(bu 3
Local media file playback (MP3, FLAC, OGG, M4A, WAV, MP4, MKV, WebM)
.IP \(bu 3
Beautiful ncurses terminal UI
.IP \(bu 3
Download management for offline playback
.IP \(bu 3
Favorites and playback history
.IP \(bu 3
OPML import/export
.IP \(bu 3
Sleep timer
.IP \(bu 3
Progress tracking and resume playback

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-add \fIURL\fR
Add a subscription from URL (RSS, OPML, or radio stream).
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-import \fIFILE\fR
Import subscriptions from OPML file.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-export \fIFILE\fR
Export subscriptions to OPML file.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-timer \fITIME\fR
Set sleep timer. TIME format: \fBN\fRh (hours), \fBN\fRm (minutes), or \fBHH:MM:SS\fR.
Examples: \fB5h\fR, \fB30m\fR, \fB1:30:00\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-purge
Clear all cache and user data.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information.

.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS

.SS Navigation
.TS
l l .
Key	Action
_
j, Down	Move selection down
k, Up	Move selection up
g	Go to first item
G	Go to last item
Ctrl+U	Page up (half page)
Ctrl+D	Page down (half page)
h	Collapse folder / Go back
l, Enter	Expand folder / Play item
.TE

.SS Playback Control
.TS
l l .
Key	Action
_
Space, p	Pause / Resume playback
+	Volume up
\-	Volume down
[	Decrease playback speed
]	Increase playback speed
\\	Reset playback speed to 1.0x
.TE

.SS Mode Switching
.TS
l l .
Key	Action
_
R	Switch to Radio mode
P	Switch to Podcast mode
F	Switch to Favorites mode
H	Switch to History mode
O	Switch to Online search mode
M	Cycle through modes
B	Change region (Online mode)
.TE

.SS Playlist Management
.TS
l l .
Key	Action
_
=	Add selected item to playlist
o	Toggle sort order (A-Z / Z-A)
L	Toggle List mode
J	Move item down in playlist
K	Move item up in playlist
C	Clear playlist
.TE

.SS Mark & Visual Mode
.TS
l l .
Key	Action
_
m	Toggle mark on current item
v	Start visual selection mode
V	Cancel visual mode / Clear all marks
d	Delete marked items
D	Download marked items
.TE

.SS Other Actions
.TS
l l .
Key	Action
_
a	Add new subscription
e	Edit current item (title/URL)
f	Add to favorites
r	Refresh current view
/	Start search
n	Next search result
N	Previous search result
?	Show help dialog
q	Quit application
U	Toggle icon style (ASCII/Emoji)
S	Toggle scroll mode
T	Toggle tree lines
.TE

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration file location: \fI~/.config/podradio/podradio.ini\fR

.SS Configuration Sections:
.IP \(bu 3
\fB[general]\fR - General settings (auto_resume, default_volume, etc.)
.IP \(bu 3
\fB[download]\fR - Download settings (download_dir, max_concurrent)
.IP \(bu 3
\fB[history]\fR - History settings (max_records, max_days)
.IP \(bu 3
\fB[youtube]\fR - YouTube download settings (video_max_height, download_mode)
.IP \(bu 3
\fB[statusbar_color]\fR - Status bar color customization

.SH DATA STORAGE
All user data is stored in \fI~/.local/share/podradio/\fR:
.IP \(bu 3
\fBpodradio.db\fR - SQLite database (subscriptions, history, cache)
.IP \(bu 3
\fBdownloads/\fR - Downloaded media files
.IP \(bu 3
\fBcache/\fR - Cached media and metadata

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/podradio/podradio.ini
User configuration file.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/podradio/podradio.db
SQLite database with subscriptions, history, and cache.
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/podradio/downloads/
Default download directory for media files.

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B mpv (libmpv)
Media playback backend (required)
.TP
.B ncurses
Terminal UI library (required)
.TP
.B libcurl
Network requests (required)
.TP
.B libxml2
RSS/OPML XML parsing (required)
.TP
.B SQLite3
Data storage (required)
.TP
.B fmt
Text formatting (required)
.TP
.B nlohmann_json
JSON processing (required)
.TP
.B yt-dlp
YouTube support (optional, for YouTube features)

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Start the TUI interface:
podradio
.TP
Add a podcast subscription:
podradio -a https://feeds.npr.org/510289/podcast.xml
.TP
Import OPML file:
podradio -i subscriptions.opml
.TP
Set sleep timer for 30 minutes:
podradio -t 30m
.TP
Export subscriptions:
podradio -e my_subscriptions.opml

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Panic <Deadship2003@gmail.com>

.SH LICENSE
MIT License - See LICENSE file for details.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/PodRadio/issues

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpv(1),
.BR yt-dlp(1)
